---
id: what-is-source-code-verification
slug: /what-is-source-code-verification
title: What is source code verification?
---

**Transparency**, **verifiability**, and **trustlessness** are the core values of blockchains and Ethereum especially. We want the smart contracts we are interacting with to be open-source. However you can't be sure if the open-source code you see is actually the one that lives on chain. Somone can show you a benign code on GitHub etc. and convince you to send your assets to a contract, but in reality it could be a malicious contract that's actually deployed at this address.

This is where source code verification comes in. Source code verification makes sure the human-readable source code you see is the same as the one that was deployed on chain.

:::info  
A verified contract does not necessarily mean it is safe to interact with it. The verification does not look into _what_ the contract does, but only that it corresponds to this source-code. The source-code itself can be malicious and contain bugs. It is the auditors' and the community's responsibility to verify the code's security.  
:::

Smart contracts are written in human-readable programming languages like [Vyper](https://vyperlang.org/) or [Solidity](https://solidity.org/). But they are compiled to and deployed in bytecode (`1`s and `0`s), so they are not human-readable.

```
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
```

<div style={{textAlign: "center", fontStyle: "italic", marginTop: "-0.75rem", marginBottom: "1rem", fontSize: "0.9rem"}}>
  How a contract looks like on Ethereum - <a href="https://holesky.otterscan.io/address/0x7ecedB5ca848e695ee8aB33cce9Ad1E1fe7865F8/contract">0x7ecedB5ca848e695ee8aB33cce9Ad1E1fe7865F8</a> on Ethereum Holesky Testnet
</div>

We can go from Solidity/Vyper code to bytecode, but not the other way around. This information is lost during compilation and we need the original source-code that compiles down to this bytecode.

In simple terms, source code verification works by:

1. Taking a smart-contract written in a human-readable programming language (Solidity/Vyper)
2. Compiling it down to bytecode
3. Comparing the compiled bytecode with the on-chain bytecode that is deployed at a certain chain and address.
