---
id: database-migration
title: Migration from Filesystem to Database
slug: /database-migration
---

# Migration from Filesystem to Database

:::info
This page describes the process of migrating all the contracts from the filesystem based repository to a new storage structure.
It is meant for anyone running their own Sourcify instance.
:::

## Current repository limitations

Currently Sourcify stores verified contracts into a repository:

- in which there are contracts verified with old verification and storage strategies: [#902](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify/issues/902), [#1071](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify/issues/1071)
- in which the sources are stored mirroring the original file system, causing naming path problems: [#515](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify/issues/515)
- filesystem based, causing a difficult maintenance and expansive advanced searches (e.g. by contract's name)

## New storage structure

We cannot move completely to a database dropping the filesystem because we want to keep serving metadata files and sources over IPFS. So the new storage structure includes:

- **RepositoryV1 (deprecated)**: a refined version of the old repository containing contracts stored with new verification and storage strategies.
- **RepositoryV2**: a filesystem-based repository where sources for each contract are stored in its `sources/` folder, without replicating the contract's original filesystem structure. Instead, it names files using `keccak256(file: string)`.
- **Database**: a PostgreSQL database based on [the schema of the Alliance Database](https://github.com/verifier-alliance/database-specs) customized to better fit Sourcify. In particular the Alliance Database doesn't allow storing contracts without creation bytecode and it doesn't explicitly support the concept of [full vs partial verification](/docs/full-vs-partial-match).

## Migration process

Sourcify will keep storing and serving matches from the old repository until the migration is completed. The migration process is structured as follows:

1. **Enable RepositoryV2 and Database in `sourcify-server`**, `sourcify-server` will store the new matches into RepositoryV2 and the Database (including the table `sourcify_sync`). `sourcify-server` will continue writing into *current_repositoryV1*.
2. **Import all the contracts** from *current_repositoryV1* into `sourcify_sync`
3. **Start the migration script**, the script reads all `synced=false` contracts from `sourcify_sync` and sends for each of them a verification request to the dedicated `sourcify-server-migration` instance that writes to:
    1. the same RepositoryV2 as `sourcify-server`
    2. the same Database as `sourcify-server`
    3. the *new_repositoryV1*
4. **Start using the new_repositoryV1:** After the migration is completed, on the dedicated  `sourcify-server-migration` instance, the new version of repositoryV1 will be produced (*new_repositoryV1*). Before using *new_repositoryV1* in `sourcify-server`, all the contracts added to the *current_repositoryV1* after starting the migration script need to be moved to *new_repositoryV1*. 

:::info sourcify-server-migration
A temporary new Sourcify’s server is used in the migration process to not overload the main server with all the previous requests, we call this new server `sourcify-server-migration`.
:::

:::info sourcify_sync
The migration process is tracked and managed by using a table named `sourcify_sync` that contains:

- `chain_id`
- `address`
- `created_at`
- `synced`: the status of the contract's migration, *"has the contract been migrated to the new storage structure?"*

:::

:::info current_repositoryV1 vs new_repositoryV1
As explained above, after we complete the migration, RepositoryV1 will be a refined version of the current repository containing contracts stored with new verification and storage strategies.
In the process of the migration:

- `sourcify-server` will keep writing RepositoryV1’s contracts to the current repository, in this document we will refer to the current repository as *current_repositoryV1*.
- `sourcify-server-migration` will store RepositoryV1’s contracts to a new empty repository, in this document we will refer to this new repository as *new_repositoryV1*.

:::

### 1. Enabling RepositoryV2 and Database

- **a. Start PostgreSQL**
- **b. Migrate the database schema**
    
    We first need to write the existing schemas defined under `services/database/migrations` into our fresh new Postgres DB:
    
    - I. Clone the Sourcify monorepo and run `npm install`
    - II. `cd services/database`
    - III. Edit `database.json` to configure the connection to the PostgreSQL database
    - IV. `npm run migrate:up -- --env=YOUR_ENV`: Instead of `YOUR_ENV`, put the JSON key under which you defined the database connection in `database.json` in the previous step.

- **c. Enable RepositoryV2**

    Make sure that in your configuration file inside `services/server/src/config` there is the `repositoryV2` configuration. Set the path accordingly:
        
    ```json
    repositoryV2: {
        path: "/home/app/repositoryV2",
    }
    ```
        
- **d. Enable Database**

    Make sure to provide the environment variables to enable the database. Set the variables accordingly in sourcify-server’s `.env` file:
        
    ```
    SOURCIFY_POSTGRES_HOST=postgresql
    SOURCIFY_POSTGRES_DB=sourcify
    SOURCIFY_POSTGRES_USER=sourcify
    SOURCIFY_POSTGRES_PORT=5432
    SOURCIFY_POSTGRES_PASSWORD=sourcify
    ```
        
- **e. Check that everything is working**
    - Restart `sourcify-server`
    - Make sure that for every match:
        - There is a row into `sourcify_matches` , `verified_contracts` (and related tables), as well as `sourcify_sync`
        - There is the respective folder in `repositoryV2/contracts/:match_type/:chain_id/:address`

### 2. Importing existing contracts

- **a. Importing contracts from the old repository**
    - I. `cd services/database`
    - II. Make sure to create a `.env` file to configure the connection to the PostgreSQL database. There is already a `.env.template` for reference.
    - III.  `npm run sourcify:database import-repo /data/repository/contracts/`: Instead of `/data/repository/contracts/`, put the current repository’s path
- **b. Wait**
    - This process can take hours. It’s normal to not see any output after running the script for a while.
    - Wait until the scripts exits with `successfully imported from “:repo_path” :number_imported_contracts contracts.`

### 3. Start the migration instance and the migration script

- **a. Start a dedicated `sourcify-server-migration` instance**
    - I. ⚠ You need to checkout **6cdcdce8f186cdf3c90438393fee1efcbe272622**  or `git checkout tags/sourcify-server@1.6.0`
    - II. Configure it accordingly using the same steps described in **1. Enabling RepositoryV2 and Database**. Both `sourcify-server` and `sourcify-server-migration` should write to the same repoV2 and Database.
    - III. ⚠ In the configuration of `sourcify-server-migration`, change the path of repositoryV1 to a new path: this is the *new_repositoryV1*. Don’t write in *current_repositoryV1*!
    - IV. Start the new `sourcify-server-migration` instance
- **b. Find unsupported chains**
    - I. From `services/server/src/sourcify-chains-default.json`  or the `sourcify-chains` file that you are using, find all the chainIds of unsupported chains.
    - II. Prepare them formatted in a list separated by a comma. E.g. `0,3,4,42,77,300,534,421613,4216137055,420,28,43,486217935,356256156,103090,420666,420420,99,592,8217,28528,14,421611,69,167005,167006`
    - III. ⚠ Remember to include chainId 0 in this list
- **c. Start the synchronization script**
    - I. `cd services/database`
    - II. Edit `database.json` to configure the connection to the PostgreSQL database
    - III. `npm run sourcify:database sync URL_TO_SOURCIFY_MIGRATION_INSTANCE /data/repository/contracts/ --  -c LIST_OF_UNSUPPORTED_CHAINS  --limit 5`
        - Instead of `/data/repository/contracts/`, put the current repository’s path. The script needs to access the old repo to get the file used to send the verification request.
        - Instead of `LIST_OF_UNSUPPORTED_CHAINS`, put the formatted list prepared in the previous step. The script will not send verification requests to these chains.
        - You can configure `--limit 5`: limit is the number of concurrent verifications that are going to be sent to the `sourcify-server-migration` for each chain. If you set 5, 5 requests are going to be sent for each chain.
- **d. Wait and monitor**
    - The script will update migrated contracts into `sourcify_sync` setting `synced=true`.
    - The script will take days and a small portion of old contracts will not be verified because of the new verification and storage strategies.
    - If the script is interrupted for any reason, you can restart it.
    - You can use this query to keep track of the current status:
        
        ```sql
        select 
        	chain_id,
        	case (chain_id in (0,3,4,42,77,300,534,421613,4216137055,420,28,43,486217935,356256156,103090,420666,420420,99,592,8217,28528,14,421611,69,167005,167006)) when true then 'unsupported' else '' end, -- paste here the list of unsupported chains
        	count(case ss.synced when true then 1 else 1 end) as total,
        	count(case ss.synced when false then 1 else null end) as to_sync,
        	count(case ss.synced when true then 1 else null end) as synced
        from sourcify_sync ss 
        where 1=1
        group by ss.chain_id 
        order by chain_id asc;
        ```
        
    - The script will output a verification per second insight. The verification speed is a good compromise between the amount of concurrent requests sent for each chain and the amount of requests the rpc can handle. If you see that you are receiving a lot of rpc errors decrease the number of concurrent verifications, if the verifications per second are too low, increase the number of concurrent verifications. You can set the number of concurrent verifications using the `--limit` parameter.
    - When the script was successful, the `sourcify-server-migration` instance can be stopped.

### **4. Start using the new deprecated repositoryV1**

- While the migration script was running on `sourcify-server-migration`, new matches coming from `sourcify-server` got saved in Database, RepositoryV2 and *current_repositoryV1* .
    - There are no issues for the Database and RepositoryV2 because `sourcify-server-migration` and `sourcify-server` are writing in the same database/fs
    - There is a complication regarding RepositoryV1. `sourcify-server` is storing new matches into the *current_repositoryV1*, while `sourcify-server-migration` in the *new_repositoryV1*.
    - A procedure is needed to transfer all the contracts in *current_repositoryV1* that were saved after RepositoryV2 and Database were enabled on `sourcify-server`.
        - `sourcify-server` stored the matches in `sourcify_sync` with the status set to `perfect` instead of `perfect_match` and `partial` instead of `partial_match`. We can use this information to list all the contracts that need to be transferred from *current_repositoryV1* to *new_repositoryV1.*
        - Extract all the contracts described in the previous point from the database in a `rows.txt` file. For each row output the path in the repository. You can use the following SQL query:
            
            ```sql
            SELECT
                '/contracts/' || CASE WHEN match_type = 'perfect' THEN 'full_match' 
                            WHEN match_type = 'partial' THEN 'partial_match'
                            ELSE 'partial_match'
                       END || '/' || chain_id || '/' || convert_from(address, 'UTF8') as path
            FROM sourcify_sync
            WHERE match_type = 'perfect' OR match_type = 'partial'
            order by id desc;
            ```
            
        - The `rows.txt` file will look like this:
            
            ```
            /contracts/partial_match/11155111/0x6C5f9712ee69E76908D3E3Ef62Ce33c04d748f61
            /contracts/full_match/11155111/0x1fDe294eA2C5A81bC24fa117994436A0B30A8F12
            /contracts/partial_match/8453/0x85b1180AfC0c45fb074Baee447B8F4aBb5BF84A9
            /contracts/full_match/11155111/0x4bf0CE51d78041103eCAA6281503546D00721A2e
            ...
            ```
            
        - Use the following script to copy all the contracts from *current_repositoryV1* to *new_repositoryV1*:
            
            ```bash
            #!/bin/bash
            
            # Path to the file containing the lines
            FILE_PATH="./rows.txt"
            
            # Count the total number of lines in the file
            total_lines=$(wc -l < "$FILE_PATH")
            
            echo "Total files to process: $total_lines"
            
            # Variable to keep track of processed lines
            processed_lines=0
            
            # Read each line from the file
            while IFS= read -r line
            do
              # Update processed lines count
              ((processed_lines++))
            
              # Construct source and destination paths
              src="/home/app/repository_current$line"
              dest="/home/app/repository$line"
            
              # Create the destination directory structure
              mkdir -p "$(dirname "$dest")"
            
              # Copy the files from source to destination without overwriting existing files
              cp -rn "$src" "$dest"
            
              # Calculate and display the percentage of completion
              percent=$(($processed_lines * 100 / $total_lines))
              echo "Processed $processed_lines / $total_lines files ($percent%)"
            done < "$FILE_PATH"
            ```

            In the script, modify `src` to match your *current_repositoryV1* path, and `dest` to match your *new_repositoryV1* path.

- In your configuration file inside `services/server/src/config`, switch the RepositoryV1 config to the *new_repositoryV1*’s path.
    
    ```json
    repositoryV1: {
    	path: "/home/app/repositoryV1",
    	...
    }
    ```

- Restart `sourcify-server`
    

## What’s next

We are still working on finding solutions for the following points:

- **Find a solution for unsupported chains contracts:** we migrated all the contracts that could be re-verified. Unfortunately, contracts from non-supported chains cannot be verified because the on-chain’s bytecode is no longer served by RPCs.
- **Using the DB as the source of truth**
- IPFS instance is pinning the RepositoryV2
