---
title: Chain Support
slug: /chain-support
---

# Chain Support

Do you want to verify contracts on an EVM chain? Great! We don't want to be the single source of truth and encourage you to run your own Sourcify instance.

If you still want to request an EVM chain to be supported by Sourcify, please open a pull request with the instructions below for a speedy process:

1. Make sure the new chain is listed in [chains.json](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify/services/core/src/chains.json). This file is kept in sync with [chainid.network](https://chainid.network/chains.json) (github: [ethereum-lists/chains](https://github.com/ethereum-lists/chains)) and **should not be edited**.

1. Fork the repository and create a new branch with name `add-network-{chainId}` (e.g. for Ethereum Mainnet `add-network-1`). This branch name format is required for automated testing. Create a new branch and a new pull request for each network.

1. Add the chain details in [sourcify-chains.ts](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify/services/core/src/sourcify-chains.ts) similar to other chains with `supported: true` and `monitored: false`. If your chain uses an Etherscan or Blockscout fork, use the same regex for other chains with the same block explorer. This field is used for verification with [immutables](/docs/immutables) via the creation bytecode.

1. Install and build the project. See [Running Locally](/docs/run-locally)

1. Provide a test contract:

   1. Deploy the test contract `test/networks/sources/shared/WithImmutables.sol` with the metadata `test/networks/sources/shared/withImmutables.metadata.json`.
      1. Using the provided script: You can easily deploy with the account private key using `test/networks/deployContract.js`. See `node deployContract.js --help`
      1. Using Remix: Copy-paste the contract `test/networks/sources/shared/WithImmutables.sol`. If you use the compiler settings defined in the metadata: compiler version `0.7.4+commit.3f05b770` and optimizer disabled on [Remix](https://remix.ethereum.org), you should have exactly the same metadata file. You can check by pasting and decoding the bytecode `60a0604...` at [playground.sourcify.dev](https://playground.sourcify.dev) that it matches to `ipfs://QmPNMaNYjzjA9oHrNdeACBNaDVpdbrbY73QJjB35AD8PHv`. Take note of the contructor argument and the contract address.
   2. If you are not able to deploy a test contract, create a folder `test/networks/sources/{chainId}` and store the contract source files and metadata there. Ideally, this should be a contract with [immutables](/docs/immutables) to guarantee verification with immutables.

1. Add the test for the new network in `test/networks/network-tests.js` similar to other networks. Use the functions `verifyContract` or `verifyContractWithImmutables`.

1. Add the chain to the front-end in [constants.ts](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify/ui/src/common/constants.ts)

1. To test locally run `npx lerna bootstrap` and `npx lerna run build` to install. Then run `NEW_CHAIN_ID={chainId} npx mocha test/networks/network-tests.js --exit`

1. Open a pull request targeting the Sourcify **staging** branch.

If the tests pass, the network will be added quickly.
