---
slug: /chain-support
---

# Requesting Chain Support

Do you want to verify contracts on an EVM chain? Great! We don't want to be the single source of truth and encourage you to [run your own Sourcify instance](/docs/docker-containers).

If you still want to request an EVM chain to be supported by Sourcify, please open a pull request with the instructions below for a speedy process:

1. Make sure the new chain is listed in [chains.json](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify/blob/staging/src/chains.json) but **this file should not be edited**. It is kept in sync with [chainid.network](https://chainid.network/chains.json) (github: [ethereum-lists/chains](https://github.com/ethereum-lists/chains)) periodically. If your chain is not included, please first add your chains to the [ethereum-lists/chains](https://github.com/ethereum-lists/chains) repository first.

1. Fork the repository. Branch out from the **staging** branch with name `add-chain-{chainId}` (e.g. for Ethereum Mainnet `add-chain-1`). This branch name format is required for automated testing. For each chain please open a new PR for the tests to run (no multiple chains e.g. ~~`add-chain-1234-1235`~~)

1. Add the chain details in [sourcify-chains.ts](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify/blob/staging/src/sourcify-chains.ts) similar to other chains with `supported: true` and `monitored: false`. If your chain uses an Etherscan or Blockscout fork, use the same regex for other chains with the same block explorer. This field is used for verification via the creator transaction.

1. Install and build the project with `npx lerna bootstrap` and `npx lerna run build`.

1. Provide test contracts:

   1. Deploy a test contract:
      1. Using the provided script: You can easily deploy both contracts with an account private key using [`test/chains/deployContracts.js`](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify/blob/staging/test/chains/deployContracts.js). See `node deployContracts.js --help`.
      1. If you can't or don't want to paste your private key, deploy [this contract in the Thirdweb dashboard](https://thirdweb.com/0xAA6042aa65eb93C6439cDaeBC27B3bd09c5DFe94/Storage) through the wallet of your choice.
   2. If you are not able to deploy new test contracts above (e.g. because it costs on a mainnet) you can provide existing contracts. Create a folder `test/chains/sources/{chainId}` and store the contract source files and metadata of already deployed contracts there.

1. Add the test for the new chain in `test/chain/chain-tests.js` similar to other chains. If you deployed a test contract as described above, the contract and the metadata are the following:

   - Storage.sol: `shared/1_Storage.sol` and `shared/1_Storage.metadata.json`

1. To test locally run `NEW_CHAIN_ID={chainId} npx mocha test/chains/chain-tests.js --exit`

1. If the tests pass, open a pull request targeting the Sourcify **staging** branch.

If the tests pass, the chain will be added quickly. The chain will be added to production (master branch) with the next release, which usually happens in 1-2 weeks.
