---
slug: /chain-support
---

# Requesting Chain Support

Do you want to verify contracts on an EVM chain? Great! We don't want to be the single source of truth and encourage you to run your own Sourcify instance.

If you still want to request an EVM chain to be supported by Sourcify, please open a pull request with the instructions below for a speedy process:

1. Make sure the new chain is listed in [chains.json](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify/blob/master/services/core/src/chains.json). This file is kept in sync with [chainid.network](https://chainid.network/chains.json) (github: [ethereum-lists/chains](https://github.com/ethereum-lists/chains)) and **should not be edited**.

1. Fork the repository. Branch out from _staging_ with name `add-chain-{chainId}` (e.g. for Ethereum Mainnet `add-chain-1`). This branch name format is required for automated testing. For each chain (testnet, mainnet etc.) a new branch and a new pull request is required.

1. Add the chain details in [sourcify-chains.ts](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify/services/core/src/sourcify-chains.ts) similar to other chains with `supported: true` and `monitored: false`. If your chain uses an Etherscan or Blockscout fork, use the same regex for other chains with the same block explorer. This field is used for verification with [immutables](/docs/immutables) via the creation bytecode.

1. Install and build the project with `npx lerna bootstrap` and `npx lerna run build`.

1. Provide test contracts:

   1. Deploy one contract with [immutables](/docs/immutables) and one normal contract. This enables displaying if it is possible to verify contracts with immutables on this chain in the [supported chains table](/docs/chains).
      1. Using the provided script: You can easily deploy both contracts with an account private key using `test/chains/deployContracts.js`. See `node deployContracts.js --help`.
      1. Using [Remix](https://remix.ethereum.org):
         1. Copy-paste the contract `test/chains/sources/shared/WithImmutables.sol`. If you use the compiler settings defined in the metadata: compiler version `0.7.4+commit.3f05b770` and optimizer disabled on [Remix](https://remix.ethereum.org), you should have exactly the same metadata file. You can check by pasting and decoding the bytecode `60a0604...` at [playground.sourcify.dev](https://playground.sourcify.dev) that it matches to `ipfs://QmPNMaNYjzjA9oHrNdeACBNaDVpdbrbY73QJjB35AD8PHv`. Take note of the contructor argument and the contract address.
         1. Copy-paste the contract `test/chains/sources/shared/1_Storage.sol`. Use the compiler settings defined in the metadata: compiler version `0.8.7+commit.e28d00a7` and optimizer disabled on [Remix](https://remix.ethereum.org), you should have exactly the same metadata file. You can check by pasting and decoding the bytecode `60a0604...` at [playground.sourcify.dev](https://playground.sourcify.dev) that it matches to `ipfs://QmSffyjwZxAWUYaAiE25YPpKYyBegQKCBnnBK3tknDSgJ5`. Take note of the contract address.
   2. If you are not able to deploy new test contracts above (e.g. because it costs on a mainnet) you can provide existing contracts. Create a folder `test/chains/sources/{chainId}` and store the contract source files and metadata of already deployed contracts there.

1. Add the test for the new chain in `test/chain/chain-tests.js` similar to other chains. Use the functions `verifyContract` or `verifyContractWithImmutables`. If you used the script `deployContracts.js` the contract and the metadata are the following:

   - Storage.sol: `shared/1_Storage.sol` and `shared/1_Storage.metadata.json`
   - withImmutables.sol: `shared/WithImmutables.sol` and `shared/withImmutables.metadata.json`

1. To test locally run `NEW_CHAIN_ID={chainId} npx mocha test/chains/chain-tests.js --exit`

1. Open a pull request targeting the Sourcify **staging** branch.

If the tests pass, the chain will be added quickly.
